So how do these activity types
and event filters work?
And how do you know which activity types and event filters
are supported for the different events?
Well, let's start with activity types.
We learn more about those in the official documentation
on that page that lists all available events.
Here we have this column activity types
which shows us all the variations
of this event or all the subtypes of that event,
you could say that can be used for triggering a workflow.
And in case of the push event, we have no variations.
But that changes if we take a look
at the pull request event.
There we see that we have a long list of activity types,
and those activity types allow us to control
whether all pull request related actions
should trigger a workflow
if we don't specify any information about the activity types
or if only some types of pull request related actions
should trigger a workflow.
We could for example, say that only opening a pull request
Though I will say right away that for the pull request event
we actually have a long list of activity types,
but if you don't specify any activity types, by default,
the pull request event will only activate a workflow,
so will only trigger a workflow
when a pull request was opened, Synchronized or reopened.
Closing a pull request by default
would not trigger a workflow.
And therefore, it's always a good idea to have a look
at the official documentation
to learn about nuances like this.
Now in this section we will still learn how we can use
all these activity types for the pull request
or for any other event to have that fine grain control
over when exactly a workflow runs
and to even override defaults like the one
described down there.
And that's how we can use those activity types.
How do we use them in our yml file here?
Well, instead of defining our events like this,
we have to define them in a bit of a more complex way,
we have to add our event in a new indented line
and for example, add pull request, a colon,
and then in another line which is even more indented,
we add the types key.
And this is not up to you, this has to be types,
because here you specify the activity types of this event,
so of the pull request event here
that should trigger this workflow.
And here you could, for example, say opened and edited,
or just opened if you're only interested in
pull requests being opened, triggering that workflow.
You can also specify a list like this,
opened and edited like this or just opened like this.
So there are different ways of writing this,
but in the end, you define a list of activity types
for this event that should trigger this workflow.
So for example, with this definition,
this workflow would run whenever a pull request is opened,
but it would not run if a pull request is edited or closed,
and it would also not run if we push
to this repository right now.
Now if you wanna add a second trigger,
a second event like workflow dispatch,
we also have to add it like this
including this colon here at the end
even though we got no details for this event.
So even though we don't have any indented lines
below workflow dispatch, we still have to add it like this.
And workflow dispatch must be on the same level
regarding its indentation as the other events.
So in this case as pull request.
So that's how we could add pull request
and workflow dispatch as our two events
for this workflow.
And for pull request, we also specify which activity types
exactly should trigger this workflow,
and in this case, it would be opened.
And to show you how this works, I'll save this
and create a new commit,
where I say added events
and push this to my repository.
Now as we do that, in this repository under actions,
we see this events demo
and I see one failed run from earlier,
but I see no new workflow execution run here
because we have this dispatch event
and we have the pull request open event,
but we have no push event added to this workflow.
That's why it's not executing after pushing here.
And with that added, what we can do
is we can quickly create a new branch here
with git checkout -b and we could name it dev,
and then make a tiny change to our code here.
For example, in HelpBox.jsx,
we could change this h free tag here to h2,
but you can make any change you want, of course.
With this change made, I can push this changed to h2,
could be a fitting commit message.
And keep in mind that this is on a new branch.
I did this so that here I can create a pull request
because now I got two branches,
though we have to push this first, of course,
so I have to push my DEF branch to origin first,
but thereafter I can create a pull request
and I can do this as the owner of this repository,
we don't have to do as another user.
So here I'll create a pull request to merge the deaf branch
into the main branch.
And if I create that pull request,
I will of course trigger that workflow
because we're listening to pull requests being opened.
Therefore, if we go to actions,
we now see that this workflow is executing,
we got a new ongoing workflow run here
because our event was triggered.
We can see this here,
the opened activity type was triggered in the end.
Now what you'll also see
is that if I go to this pull request
and I close it by marking it as closed,
this will not trigger a new workflow run
because, well, we're only listening to it being opened.
If I had closed here as well, that would be different,
but that's not the case here.
So that's how these activity types work.
And for many events like pull request,
but for example, also for the issues event
where you can run workflows whenever anything happens
to GitHub Repository issues.
For events like this,
it's very useful to have this additional control.
Without this activity type added here,
all pull request related events would trigger this workflow,
though in case of pull requests specifically,
it's worth reading the documentation
as it always is the case for all these events
if you're using them, because here we learn
that actually by default,
only opened, synchronized and reopened
would trigger a workflow
if just pull request is added as an event.
And if you wanna trigger a workflow
on some other event variations,
you explicitly have to add the respective activity types.
So if you want to run a workflow
when a pull request is closed,
you would have to explicitly add the closed activity type
under pull request to your workflow.
But this depends on which event you're using,
for some events, all activity types
might trigger a workflow if you don't provide more details
for other events like pull request,
only a selected list of activity types triggers a workflow
if you don't have further details at hand.
But that's the idea of activity types.
You got more control over when exactly your workflow runs.